280 rserrrurrrs or 'rna ¹[noct ιτ.

occasions, at first in a way ol honour, and afterwards to pre·
vent all suspicion; moreover, that by degrees they might
become known to the people, and might acquire some consider·
ation among them, and at the same time that they might learn
to bear the presence os all, arrd have courage to speak before
them, that after being made presbyters, when they should come
to preach, they might not be consounded with shame, therefore
they were appointed to read the Scriptores from the pulpit. ln
this manner they were promoted by degrees, that they might
approve their diligence in the respective exercises, till 'they
were made subdeacons. 1 only contend, that these were rather
ppgparatisonpl sodliupirs’ than fonctions reclroned among the real
o ceso te urc .

X. We have said, that the first point in the election of
ministers related to the qualifications of the persons to be
chosen, and the second to the religious reverence with which
the business ought to be conducted. ln both these points, the
ancient Church followed the directiones Paul and the examples
of the apostles. For it was their custom to assemble sor the
electiones pastors with the greatest reverence and solemn invo-
cation ol the name of God. 'l'hey had likewise a form of ex·
amination, in which they tried the life and doctrine os the
candidates by that standard of Paul. Only they ran into the
error of immoderate severity, from a wish to require in a bishop
more than Paul requires, and especially, in process os time, by
enjoining celibacy. ln other things their practice was in con-
formity with the descriptiones Paul. (h) ln the third point
which we have mentioned, namely, by whom ministers ought
to be chosen, they did not always observa the same order. In
the primitive times there was no one admitted among the num·
beros the clergy, without the consent of all the people; so
that Cyprian makes a laboured defence of his having appointed
one Aurelius a reader, without consulting the Church, because
be departed in this instance lrom the general custom, though
not without reason. He begins in the following manner: “ ln
appointing the clergy, my very dear brethrcn, we are accus-
tomed first to consult you, and to weigh the morals and merits

· of every one of thern in the general assembly.” But as there

was not much danger in these inferior exercises, because they
were admitted to along probation, and not to a high office, the
consent of the people ceased to be asked. Alterwards, in the
other offices also, except the episcopate, the people generally
lest the judgment and choice to the bishop and presbyters, so
that they determined who were capable and deserving; except
when new presbytera were appointed to the parishes, fortheri

(ι) ι nm. ιιι. s-r.

 

