, 106 marran-ras or rna [ιιοοι ιιι.

“ Daniel, and Job, were in the land, they should deliver but their
own souls by their righteousness, saith the Lord God ; '’ (o)
where he undoubtedly meant to signisy, is two of them should
return to life again; sor the third was then alive, namely,
Daniel, who is well known to have given an incomparable
specimen os his piety, even in the flowcr os his youth. Let us
then leave thern, whom the Scriptura clearly shows to have
finished their course. 'Pherefore Paul, when speaking of David,
does not say that he assists posterity by his prayers, but only
that “he served his own generation.’' (p)

XXIV. They further object — Shall we then divest them of
every benevolent wish, who through the whole course os their
lives breathed only benevolence and mercy? Truly, as 1 do not
wish too euriously to inquire into their actions or thoughts, so
it is by no means probable thet they are agitated by the im·
pulse of particular wishes, but rather that with lixed aod per·
manent desires they aspiro aster the kingdom of God3 which
consiste no less in the perdition of the impious, than in the
salvation of believers. lt thisbe true, their charity also is
comprehended within the communion of the body of Christ,
and extends uo iurther than the nature os that communion per·
mits. But though 1 grant that in this respect they pray for us,
yet they do not therefore relinquish their own repose, to be
distracted with earthly cares3 and much less are they there·
lore to be the objects of oar invocation. Neitheris it a neces·
sary consequence of this, that they must imitate the conduct
ol menon earth by mutually praying sor one another. For

' this conduces to the cultivation os charity among them, while

they divide, as it were, between them, and reciprocally bear
their mutual necessities. And in this, indeed, they act accord·
ing to God's precept, and are not destitute of his promise3
which two are always the prinoipal points in prayer. No such
consideratione have any relation to the dead ; whom when the
Lord has removed from our society, be has left us no inter·
course with thern, nor thern, indeed, as sar as our conjectures
can reach, any with ua (q) But isany one plead, that they
cannot but retain the same charity towards us, as they are
united with us by the same saith, yet who has revealed that
they have ears long enough to reach our voices, and eyes so
perspicacious as ιο watoh over our necessities? They talk in
the schools οι 1 linow not what refrdgenee ol the Divino coun-
tenance irradiatlng them, in which, asina mirror, they behold
from heaven the affairs of men. But to affirm this, especially
with the presumption with which they dare ιο essert it, what
is it but an attempt, by the infatuated dreams ol our own
hrains, sorcibly to penetrate into the secret appointments of

(o) Esek. xiv. 1⁴. (p) henxutto. (q) Euclea. ix. ὅ, 6.

 

